# Decision-Systems-for-Engineering-Design-
Sampling Plans | Knowledge Discovery | Optimization | NSGA-II Genetic Algorithm | Decision Support

This report aims to explore the optimal tuning parameter for a PI Controller via a Multi-Objective Optimization approach amalgamated with the deduced optimal sampling plan and the NSGA-II Genetic algorithm as a decision-making tool for the engineering design problem. The problem was Initialized via Matlab to deduce a [0.9 0.4] and [0.01 0.02] as the maximum and minimum range of decision variable, K_p and K_I, respectively. The procedure involved progressively incorporating goals and priority of the performance criteria provided by the Chief of Engineer. The candidate designs obtained from the 250 iterations (generation) of the NSGA-II algorithm were extensively analyzed to determine the trade-off and harmonious relationship between performance criteria. Several potential designs were extracted (Table 3), none of the candidate designs met the desired Rise Time and Gain Margin criteria. The Chief of Engineering will require to reconsider the Rise Time while taking the trade-off between the performance criteria into considerations as well as potentially considering Gain Margin as a Hard constraint. Design 1 with the [K_p  K_I ] gain of [0.2148 0.2384] was selected as an optimal candidate based upon it effectively meeting all performance criteria except those explained above. Design 4, [0.1106 0.2128] was considered as the second-best option. The approach used to deduce the tuning parameter of the PI controller can also be extended to examine the suitable controller for the propulsion engine via considering the Simulink model as a ‘black-box’ system. Lastly, several examples are also provided where the Multi-objective optimization technique is implemented as a decision-making tool in the automotive industry for vehicle design along with potential decision systems tool that could potentially be utilized for vehicle design problem though, this greatly depends on the type of problem at hand. 
